Q: Fixed digits after decimal with f-strings
A: print(f'{(10/3):.5f}')
A: 3.33333

Q: What is idempotence?
A: When performing an operation again and again gives the same result
A: for example, PUT http request is idempotent as calling PUT multiple times
A: will always produce the same results

Q: What is Bias in machine learning?
A: Bias occurs when an algorithm has limited flexibility to learn the true signal from the dataset
A: In other words: bias is an error from faulty assumptions in the learning algorithm UNDERFITTING
A: A high bias means the prediction will be inaccurate.
A: A linear regression is an example of an algorithm with high bias. 
A: It's easy to understand and implement but not flexible to learn the underlying signal of the data. 
A: Thus, they are inaccurate for complex datasets.

Q: What is Variance in machine learning?
A: Variance is an error from sensitivity to small fluctuations in the training set. 
A: High variance can cause an algorithm to model the random noise in the training data, 
A: rather than the intended outputs - it's called OVERFITTING
A: A high variance tends to occur when we use complicated models that can overfit our training sets

Q: Explain Bias-Variance tradeoff
A: Increaing bias reduces variance and vice-versa
A: Unfortunately, you cannot minimize bias and variance at the same time.
A: You have to find a sweet spot by minimizing error defined as:
A: E = B^2 + V + irreducible error

Q: What is overfitting?
A: Overfitting is a low bias and high variance problem. 
A: Algorithm is too compicated for the task and too sensitiv to small fluctuations in the training set.
A: In other words: the algorithm is memorizing instead of learning.
A: TRY: more training data or decrease model complexity

Q: What is underfitting?
A: Underfitting is a scenario in data science where a data model is unable to capture 
A: the relationship between the input and output variables accurately, 
A: generating a high error rate on both the training set and unseen data

Q: What are 5 methods for preventing overfitting?
A: 1. Simplifying model
A: 2. Data augmentation
A: 3. Early stopping
A: 4. Dropout
A: 5. Regularization

Q: Pytorch - how to create 
Q: a) vector of size N filled with random floats
Q: b) matrix of size N x M filled with random ints from the range of (10,100)
Q: c) vector of size N with specific data
A: a) torch.rand(5) or torch.rand(5,)
A: b) torch.randint(10, 100, (3,4))
A: c) torch.tensor([1,2,3,4,5])

Q: PyTorch - how to check type of data in a tensor?
A: m = torch.rand(5,2)
A: m.dtype
A: >>> torch.float32

Q: What is the number of columns and rows in this tensors?
Q: a) torch.rand(5,2)
Q: b) torch.rand(3,)
A: a) matrix 5 rows x 2 columns
A: b) vector of length = 3. 
A:    Often presented in vertical (3 rows), but no dimentionality for vector

Q: What is torch equivalent / counterpart of numpy.reshape?
A: Method torch.view()
A: v = torch.rand(10,2) # size 10r x 2c
A: v.view(4, 5) # size 4r x 5c
A: v.view(4, -1) # to infer size of the second dimention from the first one

Q: Converting between tensor and numpy array and back?
A: a = np.array([1,2,3,4,5])
A: t = torch.from_numpy(a)
A: n = torch.numpy(t)
